Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Lecture.
Now this question came from Roberto.
Roberto says,
Hi.
I am trying to set up a model to automatically calculate fees that follows different bands
or blocks,
which is the best way of doing this.
Thanks in advance for your help.
Well,
this is actually really straightforward utilize in a function that we used extensively in
the database section of level two and that is the V.
Look up now where you can download this file,
it's called a level two sq a 17 fee calculator or lookups that are true,
not false.
And that should give you a clue as to what we're gonna do to see it.
So we have two sheets.
I'll come to the second sheet next.
That's a just a bit of a bonus.
So what we have is a simple table here that tells us what our threshold is.
We begin at zero notice,
very important.
And then we go up in bands of 102 155 100,000,
2000 500 all way up to nine nines,
whatever that number is.
And here is the feet percentage that we're gonna calculate depending on what our sales are
.
So we have three salespeople Rita,
Sue and Bob just like the film.
So what I'm gonna do now is I'm just gonna randomly put in a couple of numbers,
which just happened to correspond with the first numbers.
So here,
I'm just going to use a straightforward V Look up,
just like we've used many times before.
I'm gonna look at that number,
and I'm gonna look for that number here.
I'm gonna f four because that's an absolute cell reference.
When we drag it down,
I am looking at column,
too.
And for now,
I'm just going to say false in his center.
So,
you see,
at £100 we get a fee off 2% and if I just copy that down,
that works perfectly.
So 250 gives us three on 500 gives us four.
Now.
What happens if we only make sales of $99?
We get an error because 99 is not in this table at all.
Now,
if you'll remember from the from the section on databases,
that false gives us an exact match.
In fact,
the clue is even here.
False exact match.
What we're gonna choose now is true and notice what happens.
£99 gives us a band off one because 99 is less than 100.
So it doesn't qualify for the 2% and it's between zero and 100.
So qualifies for one.
If we had let me just copy that formula down if we had sales of 251 will still be at 3%
even at 499 was still a 3%.
If we got to the 501 we get to 4%.
Even if we got to 501 on one P would still be at 4% safe.
You in 2565 you will see that is over the 2500 but below the 5000 on,
we get a fee off six.
So here we can calculate what is actually payable so we could say equals this multiplied by
this percentage divided by 100.
So the fee payable to retract for ourselves of 99 Pete that £99 would be 1% which is 99 p
.
We can copy that down and we can see the fees that are payable depending on the band that
that particular cells person has hit.
Hopefully,
that makes sense now what we could do rather than hope these in is we may have a data table
that catalogs all of the sales there.
Different sales people have made.
So here,
what I'm gonna do I'm just going to introduce a simple some.
If Onda se equals some if open brackets the range where we are looking,
we are going to be looking for the name comma.
So we're looking for the name on.
We are looking for the name that appears in,
uh,
this Selfridges and they were hidden by the formula,
which is e four.
So that's where reads his name of years come out and we're gonna some the range back to the
sales were going to some column C.
We're gonna close brackets.
So all of retail sales total £222.
All of sue sales totaled 540 on a lot of bumps sales.
They're all very poor sales people,
by the looks of it.
So Rita at £222 falls between the 102 15 so she gets 2%.
Su at 540 is between the 501,000.
So she gets 4% which is £21.60 on Bob.
Bob gets 130.
Let's Let's,
UM,
let's make Su an exceptional sales person.
It's finding entry for Sue and give her $6000 or pounds worth of sales at a go at £6000
Sue or £6512 Sue will get 7% which is between the five on the tent.
So she gets seven on her commission will be Fight 455 84.
The key thing here when using this true is you must have this sorted Alfa numerically that
is the very lowest at the bottom on the very highest at the top and as long as you that
that should work out perfectly.
I hope that helps Roberta,
but is always if anyone has any questions,
just let me know and I'll be happy to help.
I'll see you in the next lecture